Hi this is Yolanda Vanveen from vanveenbulbs.com.
In this segment we are learning all about
how to transplant tulip bulbs. Now we all
have tulip bulbs that we get in pots at Valentine's
Day or the middle of Winter and they are beautifully
in bloom and then the blooms fade away and
we don't know what to do with them. Well I
always say if you ever have tulips in a pot
or they are in an area of your garden and
you want to put them in a different area of
the garden move them any time they are not
blooming so as soon as they are done blooming
is the best time to transplant them and they
are always very easy to transplant. So I've
got these tulip bulbs that were in this pot
and they are done blooming and I have watered
the pots for the Summer because you never
want to keep these too dry either because
I think that is the number one thing that
we use our tulips in the Northwest because
we never water them in the Summer. So we put
them in a bed that is far away or we leave
them in the pot and they dry out and just
cook over the Summer so a trick that I've
found is to actually keep those tulips watered
over the Summer if you live in especially
the Portland area where we get really hot
Summers any more and they will do a lot better
and now it is the Fall and I'm going to transplant
them into my garden so that I can enjoy them
in my garden next Spring so it is very important
that you plant them about three inches deep,
they don't need to be any deeper than that
and I'm just going to put them in groups of
three or more so you don't want to have just
one by itself because they have not done anything
wrong. You never put your plants in time out
so I'm going to put three of these tulips
in a triangle. Next year they'll be just gorgeous
right here. So the trick is to just transplant
them and to plant them back where you want
them as soon as you dig them up. You never
want to leave them out of the ground too long
and if you do it is a lot easier to leave
them in soil or just put them in a paper bag
so that they don't get too wet or too dry.
When transplanting your tulip bulbs make sure
to do it right away because you don't want
to leave them out of the ground for very long
and you want to keep them dry if you need
to but not too dry that they just burn up
and at the same time you don't want to leave
them in mud or somewhere where they are not
going to get any air because then they might
start rotting so then the safest place is
always in the ground. So when you transplant
tulips do it any time they are not blooming,
the Fall or the Winter of course is the best
time but any more I'm finding that my garden
has no rules and that I try to transplant
and garden year round whenever I get a chance
and that is always the best time.